What are "oarsh" and "oarsh_shell" scripts?
...........................................

"oarsh" and "oarsh_shell" are two scripts that can restrict user processes to
stay in the same cpuset on all nodes.

This feature is very usefull to restrict processor consumption on
multiprocessors computers and to kill all processes of a same
OAR job on several nodes.

CPUSET definition
.................

CPUSET is a module integrated in the Linux kernel since 2.6.x.
In the kernel documentation, you can read::

    Cpusets provide a mechanism for assigning a set of CPUs and Memory
    Nodes to a set of tasks.

    Cpusets constrain the CPU and Memory placement of tasks to only
    the resources within a tasks current cpuset.  They form a nested
    hierarchy visible in a virtual file system.  These are the essential
    hooks, beyond what is already present, required to manage dynamic
    job placement on large systems.

    Each task has a pointer to a cpuset.  Multiple tasks may reference
    the same cpuset.  Requests by a task, using the sched_setaffinity(2)
    system call to include CPUs in its CPU affinity mask, and using the
    mbind(2) and set_mempolicy(2) system calls to include Memory Nodes
    in its memory policy, are both filtered through that tasks cpuset,
    filtering out any CPUs or Memory Nodes not in that cpuset.  The
    scheduler will not schedule a task on a CPU that is not allowed in
    its cpus_allowed vector, and the kernel page allocator will not
    allocate a page on a node that is not allowed in the requesting tasks
    mems_allowed vector.

    If a cpuset is cpu or mem exclusive, no other cpuset, other than a direct
    ancestor or descendent, may share any of the same CPUs or Memory Nodes.
    A cpuset that is cpu exclusive has a sched domain associated with it.
    The sched domain consists of all cpus in the current cpuset that are not
    part of any exclusive child cpusets.
    This ensures that the scheduler load balacing code only balances
    against the cpus that are in the sched domain as defined above and not
    all of the cpus in the system. This removes any overhead due to
    load balancing code trying to pull tasks outside of the cpu exclusive
    cpuset only to be prevented by the tasks' cpus_allowed mask.

    A cpuset that is mem_exclusive restricts kernel allocations for
    page, buffer and other data commonly shared by the kernel across
    multiple users.  All cpusets, whether mem_exclusive or not, restrict
    allocations of memory for user space.  This enables configuring a
    system so that several independent jobs can share common kernel
    data, such as file system pages, while isolating each jobs user
    allocation in its own cpuset.  To do this, construct a large
    mem_exclusive cpuset to hold all the jobs, and construct child,
    non-mem_exclusive cpusets for each individual job.  Only a small
    amount of typical kernel memory, such as requests from interrupt
    handlers, is allowed to be taken outside even a mem_exclusive cpuset.

    User level code may create and destroy cpusets by name in the cpuset
    virtual file system, manage the attributes and permissions of these
    cpusets and which CPUs and Memory Nodes are assigned to each cpuset,
    specify and query to which cpuset a task is assigned, and list the
    task pids assigned to a cpuset.


OARSH
.....

"oarsh" is a wrapper around the "ssh" command (tested with openSSH).
Its goal is to propagate two environment variables:

    - OAR_CPUSET : The name of the OAR job cpuset
    - SUDO_USER : The name of the user who has launched oarsh command

So "oarsh" must be run by oar and a simple user must run it via the
"sudowrapper" script to become oar.
In this way each cluster user who can execute "oarsh" via "sudowrapper" can
connect himself on each cluster nodes (if oarsh is installed everywhere).


OARSH_SHELL
...........

"oarsh_shell" must be the shell of the oar user on each nodes where you want
oarsh to worked.
This script takes "OAR_CPUSET" and "SUDO_USER" environment variables and
adds its PID in OAR_CPUSET cpuset. Then it searchs user shell and home and
executes the right command (like ssh).


NOTES
.....

    - On each nodes you must add in the SSH server configuration file::

        AcceptEnv OAR_CPUSET SUDO_USER
        PermitUserEnvironment yes
        UseLogin no
        AllowUsers oar

      In Debian the file is "/etc/ssh/sshd_config".

      *AllowUsers* restricts the users which can connect directly on the
      nodes. With cpuset enabled, only the user oar is needed but other logins
      can be added with this syntax(it is safer)::
      
        AllowUsers oar admin1 admin2 ...
        
    - the command "scp" can be used with oarsh. The syntax is::

        scp -S /path/to/oarsh ...
    
    - If you want to use oarsh from the user frontale, you can. You have to
      define the environment OARSH_JOB_ID and then launch oarsh on a node used
      by your OAR job. This feature works only where the oarstat_ command is
      configured::

        OARSH_JOB_ID=42 oarsh node12

      or::

        export OARSH_JOB_ID=42
        oarsh node12

      This command gives you a shell on the "node12" from the OAR job 42.

      You can also copy files with a syntax like::

        OARSH_JOB_ID=42 scp -S /path/to/oarsh ...

    - You can restrict the use of oarsh with the sudo configuration::

        %oarsh ALL=(oar) NOPASSWD: /path/to/oarsh

      Here only users from oarsh group can execute oarsh

